Downloaded from
YTS.MX
SUPPORTING THE INVESTIGATIONS
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
DETECTIVE AGENCY
HENKKA & KIVIMUTKA
Hi. I'm Henkka.
In the background you see Lahti.
This is a pretty "spot place".
Dad said that some hero
said so a long time ago.
Pretty well put. if you ask me.
But yeah... Let's move on.
Henkka. Henkka. Henri Virtanen!
Get your backpack.
You're going to be late.
Hurry up now.
-Yeah. yeah.
Bye now.
-Did you forget something?
Over there.
This is my mother. She's alright.
But from time to time
she has a nervous breakdown.
I've never seen a nerve break down.
but it must be some mother-thing.
Oh no.
This weirdly jerking creature
is my bus driver. I mean my dad.
He drives a bus
that must have at least two decks.
He likes to tickle everyone.
It's kind of embarrassing...
I mean I don't think he tickles
the passengers.
Though he probably would like to.
Tickets. please. Thank you.
Have a nice day at school.
Remember to do your homework
right after school.
Bye now!
-Let's go.
I feel that the grown ups
Don't always understand my world
They just rush me to school
Even though it would be more cool
To learn from this town
Walking along Pumpputie way
Nothing takes my focus away
I notice something wild
A fate most vile
My little cat has vanished
This mission can be completed
Detective agency is on the case
To school I make my way
Nothing takes my focus away
I notice something
over there is wrong
I lost my wallet yesterday.
-But the fare needs to be paid.
This mission can be completed
Detective agency is on the case!
-There is nothing in here!
Detective is on the case
Walking along this way
Nothing takes my focus away
I notice a new opportunity
To make this a good day
This mission can be completed
Detective from detective agency
is on the case
Is on the case
Hi. Are you ok?
Hi there. I'm fine.
I just came to see this tree.
Have a nice day.
Lahti is full of funny folks.
and there's always something
odd and exciting going on.
Like now.
Blood.
This is my best friend Kivimutka.
First name is...
Jorma-Kalevi.
Also known as Jiikoo. We are
Detective agency Henkka & Kivimutka.
Look.
Are those long johns?
-No. pantyhose.
There was also an axe
and some blood where I found these.
Yuck! Put them away
before someone sees them...
Something bad has happened
to whoever owns these.
Now Jiikoo is getting it.
You can see it on his face.
Not that face. the one before...
This one. No. I mean...
Argh! Forget it.
Maybe a bank robber wore those.
Or there has been a murder...
Now look at that face!
Spiffing morning!
-Spiffing morning.
This is a wonderful morning.
It is a great pleasure to welcome
a new student to the 5B-team.
May I present. Sisko-Kaarina!
Ok now. Let's welcome Sisko-Kaarina.
Welcome.
Thank you and hi everyone.
That desk there is free.
You can sit down.
Sisko-Kaarina moved here from Stadi.
or Helsinki.
It's the capital of Finland.
I've been there.
There are sights such as...
Finlandia square. art museum Kuisma.
statue of the three hammered men.
And the National Theatre.
Yeah... Like that. Welcome.
And take out the math-math...
-Math books.
Smells wonderful.
-Only the best for the queen.
That's mother. not a queen.
And that groping is yucky.
Why can't mother be a queen?
You call yourself an FBI-man.
It's pronounced Ef-pee-i.
So what is the Ef-pee-i-man doing?
Oh. math.
Yeah. but soon I'm going to dedicate
myself to investigating a murder.
A ten-year-old doesn't yet
have to dedicate to anything.
Yeah. but there are crimes all around.
Look. Even these tv-shows have crimes.
"Sherlock Holmes".
"Hercule Poirot". "Columbo"...
How have you been watching these?
I'll go and rake the yard.
Well yes. there are quite a few.
But the news is not a crime show.
The news said that a jewelry store
on Mannerheimintie was robbed.
Mannerheimintie is close by.
for your information.
It's not the same street.
That Mannerheimintie is in Helsinki.
And last week on the news...
-Henri Virtanen.
And now it's time for a sermon.
Not the church kind. but... You know.
Mom takes a deep breath and will
soon start barking like a machine gun.
You mustn't watch those programs.
Those things are not for you.
Ten-year-olds don't solve crimes
and watch news on television.
Then why does the news come on
right after children's programs?
Luckily you don't watch
children's programs anymore.
When you have eaten. clear the table.
You know where everything goes.
Sort the waste. Lid in the metal waste.
cup in the energy waste.
I do like my mom. even if she is
no queen and talks crazy sometimes.
What are you talking about?
-Nothing. Let's go.
Hi.
-Well. shall we?
Play.
-What?
P-L-A-Y.
Oh. Hilma! Don't do that!
Yeah. let's go. Just a sec.
Don't go to the balcony.
Why is there such a mess again?
Oh. it's Henkka.
Hi. I didn't notice you.
I can close the door.
-Thank you. Aren't you a dear.
Behave now!
Could you close the door?
We need fingerprints from the murder
weapon. -And all the other samples.
Where is it?
-What?
The axe?
-It's disappeared.
Even the bloodstain has been wiped.
Someone is clearly trying to
cover their tracks. -Samples.
Hi.
-Hi.
Samples.
It's Kauko.
Gosh darn it.
Kauko Mäyhkö. Eight years old.
An okay-friend or part-time friend.
but sometimes a little exhausting.
In birthday parties he takes a plate
full of cookies and covers them in spit.
So he won't be left without any.
What are you doing?
Found this on the street.
-It's not mine.
It says "properti of Henkka" on it.
Give it to me.
Don't leave stuff
on the way of emergency vehicles.
Even if your dad is a firefighter.
you are not. Was that all?
I got a new thrasher. Wanna lose?
We don't play with those.
Thrashers are for little kids.
Go home. Your mom will give you a treat.
You had thrashers last week.
-Yeah. but not anymore.
What are you doing? -Nothing.
and we can't play with you now.
If you can't play with me.
why can you play in the shed?
Besides.
I have three lollipops in my pocket.
Show me.
I'll take the yellow one.
-Green one.
So... What are you doing?
-Eating lollipops.
Yeah. yeah. but what else?
Nothing.
-Are you playing police again?
Thanks for the lollipop. Bye.
You mangy curs will suffer a stinging
defeat to the glorious thrasher.
And besides. mom is not home.
You need to be more careful.
What if he had come to the lab?
Sorry.
Whatever. I gotta go.
Let's continue tomorrow.
FEELINGS
JOY
What feelings can you think of.
other than joy?
What other feelings do people have?
Sepi. be quiet and listen.
Johannes! No. Put the crayons away.
this is not an art class.
As the school day goes on.
the more the teacher says
No! No. No!
No. No. No!
To me. the teacher doesn't
ever have to say... -No.
...because I focus. Or actually
I just look like it and stay quiet.
Often I solve crimes in my head.
but my face looks like I'm focusing.
There are crimes to be solved
even at school.
For example. there is one men's shoe
in the janitor's closet by the gym.
But only one. Why?
The obvious answer is that the owner
of the shoe had been kidnapped.
Otherwise he would have come
to get the missing shoe.
Stage is closed.
-Henkka?
Henkka?
What?
-Could you answer the question?
Yeah. I mean...
Schnauzer.
What does a dog breed have
to do with emotions? -Schnauzer.
Quiet. Sepi.
Of course the dog can be cute.
and a person may become infatuated.
He's infatuated with a schnauzer.
Oh. Sepi-schnauzer.
When a person is in a new situation.
and does not know how to behave -
uncertainty can be expressed
for example by laughter.
Laughter can be a defense.
some kind of protective shell.
Uncertainty can come from fear.
A new thing or a situation can be scary.
And now onto homework.
-No!
Over the course of the weekend
write a paper titled "What do I fear?"
Due on Monday.
Have a spiffamous weekend.
Spiffamous weekend.
Sorry for the delay. I took a dump.
-Too much information.
Jiikoo. Close your mouth.
No way. dude's all schnauzer.
What? -Dude is all schnauzer
for Sisko-Kaarina.
Am not a schnauzer.
Whatever. Scary it is in any case.
As is that.
What kind of snifflers have we here?
Do you want a beating?
Hands off my classmates.
-Look. more snifflers.
Snifflers?
I bet you can't even start that clunker.
We better leave now.
Thanks. -No worries.
I just can't stand bullying.
What did you do?
-Yanked out the spark plug wire.
Let's go before he notices it.
Sisko-Kaarina is kinda cool.
And knows a lot about engines.
Yeah. she's ok.
Competition. First one to see a Ferrari.
Merc. Fiat.
What are you gonna write that paper on?
Kinda hard to write.
because I'm afraid of nothing.
Nothing?
-Nothing.
Is that a... No. Toyota.
What are you doing there?
Come here. Or are you afraid of heights?
Am not.
Then why don't you come here?
- I don't feel like it.
Dude's afraid of heights!
Am not! I think dad is.
When we were in an amusement park -
dad wanted to go on a scenic train.
but it turned out to be a roller coaster.
So embarrassing. But I was totally cool.
Ferrari!
No. that's a Nissan.
So it is.
Let's call it a draw?
-Yeah.
If the Ferraris had been on the move.
I would have won.
Don't mistake bones for muscles.
What does that even mean?
-Dunno.
Who does the longest wheelie?
Where have you been. mister?
We were looking for
a Ferrari at the overpass.
This long? Do you even hear
what you're saying?
School ended ages ago.
But we didn't see any!
And it was Jiikoo's idea.
Why didn't you answer your phone?
I guess it was in silent mode.
What are these?
-Pantyhose.
Whose?
-Mine.
Your pantyhose?
They are a piece of panty...
I mean. a piece of evidence.
Where did you get these?
- I found them.
Where?
-At Pumpputie.
In Mrs. Luukka's hedge.
But they are not hers.
Well... I guess not.
You shouldn't have taken them.
They belong to someone.
They belong to a murdered woman.
The victim is a woman.
because men rarely wear pantyhose.
She's small and lives close by.
Henkka... Why on earth would
the owner of these have been murdered?
How can you conclude that
from a pantyhose in a hedge?
That is a tricky dilemma.
Your reasoning can be rather complicated
and staggeringly confused.
You need exercise. food and sleep -
to keep your head
from going off in a tangent.
Could I have those back?
-Henkka. come on.
They are evidence.
-Nobody has been murdered.
If not. why can't I get them back?
If the owner has not been murdered.
she would like them back.
You really get on my last nerve.
Well. take them.
Thanks. I will solve this stage.
-It's a case.
And don't you have
a more important case?
Homework.
-Yeah. yeah.
My homework was disturbed a bit by
mom and dad's fairly loud conversation.
Don't let him watch Sherlock Holmes!
-He just has a vivid imagination.
Mom calls them development discussions.
Development discussion in five minutes!
I don't get why
it's always in five minutes.
Mom has some strange need to go exercise
and yell something strange before them.
Ok. time for a development discussion.
WHAT DO I FEAR?
I decided to postpone homework
and focus on the important stuff.
First I texted Jiikoo.
DETECTIVE AGENCY WORK TOMORROW
The reply was fairly fast.
PUT IT ON THE ALMANAC
Jiikoo does not have a calendar.
He uses an almanac.
I don't know why.
That is not important right now.
first things first.
I have to prioritize.
There are 36 houses on Pumpputie.
Our house is number 18.
Number 5 is opposite it.
I don't know who lives there.
It doesn't matter. and neither do these.
Mid-sized women with missing pantyhose
do not live in those.
Thus the noose begins to tighten.
The murderer does not live with us.
that is a fact. certain information.
It's ready.
MAILBOX THIEVES STRUCK AGAIN
Good morning.
-Good morning.
Are you in a hurry?
-No. Hmow sho?
Mjust a thought.
Dom't thalk with food im your mouth.
-What?
Henkka. dom't thalk with food im
your mouth. -You're thalkimg yourshelf.
Henkka thalks with food im his mouth!
-Sho does shomeone else.
Doesh not.
-Shtop...
Stop fooling around.
Henkka. get the door.
I assume you have identity
you can prove to yourself?
It's upstairs. I have to go
to the toilet and get dressed.
Don't take comic books.
or it'll take too long.
Hi there. Let me see that fancy
police card of yours again.
Simply incredible. Wonderful. J.K.
Take good care of that.
Come and see Jorma-Kalevi's fancy card.
I've seen that... Hi. It looks grand.
Aren't you going to offer something
to drink? -Oh. want some coffee?
Little boys... I mean police men don't
drink coffee. I'll bring you some juice.
How is it?
Yeah...
Do the police men have
a Black Maria waiting outside?
Who's Maria?
It's just the two of us playing.
Black Maria.
You sometimes say the weirdest things.
Where are you boys going?
-To play hide and seek.
That's nice.
That's nice and brisk.
Pumpputie. The houses crossed over
have been excluded.
Why is there a cross over your house?
-There are no murderers at our house.
Why has Luukka's house been marked?
The crime scene
is right next to Luukka's house.
I saw someone digging in Luukka's yard.
Maybe they were burying a corpse?
-That's right.
But the pantyhose do not
belong to Luukka. -How do you know?
Look.
Focus.
They just won't fit!
Believe me!
Take it to the separator.
Let's start there.
-Take the map with you.
Take the shovel.
This is our chance.
Careful now. Let's investigate the yard.
Look.
What is that?
-A drone. Every kid has those nowadays.
Pretty cool.
I'll put an end to your mischief.
Hide!
Box thieves!
That was a close call. The drone
revealed us. Who's steering it?
I don't see anyone.
Did you find anything?
This carrot. -Maybe the body
is not in the vegetable patch.
We have to find a small-to-mid-sized
person. who owns the pantyhose.
When we find the victim...
-We will also find the murderer.
Some day you will be
the Sherlock Holmes of southern Lahti.
To the fire! -Go home.
Your mom will give you a treat.
We can't play with you.
-Where are you going?
To the library.
-It's not open on Saturdays.
We're going to the library
to play softball with the big boys.
Then why don't you have bats or gloves?
The big boys will bring them.
Don't try to play detective.
It's childish.
You're not going to play.
Go home.
Your mom will give you a treat.
Bye. we're going now.
Is he following us?
-Looks like it.
The big boys are coming soon!
Oh no!
Henkka!
What's the holdup? Come on!
-No.
Hurry up. they're soon here.
I can't climb.
-What do you mean?
I don't dare.
Then hide. and fast!
Where did the snifflers go?
-Better come out.
Yeah. we won't do anything.
It's idiotic to pick on minors.
-Don't change the subject.
You're afraid of heights.
-Am not.
"I don't dare."
You're afraid of the moped boys.
-Am not.
I just don't want them bullying.
No! Don't!
-Kauko!
Give it to me!
-Why don't you take it?
We have to act fast. Plan.
Don't!
-Take it!
I'll tell mom!
Stop that right now.
or I will release my schnauzer!
His name is Killer.
Yeah. his name... is Killer.
POLICE!
STOP!!
Cops. let's move!
Don't release the dog!
There is no dog here.
-Is that Henkka?
Yeah. and me.
Are you ok?
-Yeah.
Go home carefully now.
-Yeah... Thanks. guys.
No prob. See ya. Kauko.
-Yeah. Bye.
Howdy.
-Howdy.
Who will ask?
-You go. you're the boss.
Okay. Roger.
-Roger.
I was feverishly pondering
the meaning of FBI.
pantyhose.
the small-to-mid-sized murder victim -
and the crucial opening line.
Good day. How are you?
I wanted to ask if you have a sister.
Well ask then.
Do you have a sister?
-Yes.
Okay. here we are.
Southern Lahti FBI regional office
is on the right track.
Could I meet your sister?
-Which one?
The small-to-mid-sized one.
Is either of your sisters taller
than me. but shorter than you?
Both.
Is either of your sisters
15 centimeters taller than me.
but 20 centimeters shorter than you?
Both.
Are your sisters home?
-Yeah. So?
If they are missing pantyhose.
the murder case is solved
and in the books.
Could we meet them?
Who is "we"?
-Me and my...
And your imaginary friend?
I would like to ask if they are
missing something important.
Like what?
-Pantyhose.
What?
I guess I was mistaken. Sorry. Bye.
Hands up!
What are you doing?
I was just about to arrest them.
They are innocent.
and this is humiliating.
Let's move on.
Yeah. milk doesn't suit Hermanni at all.
It makes his stomach upset. He can only
use lactose-free cream in his coffee.
It tastes horrible.
-Yes. But the stomach is what it is.
I have also had erysipelas for a while.
I can only eat gluten-free cookies.
I haven't found the good ones
anywhere recently.
Doubt I will with these eyes...
Take the glasses.
Where are those? I can't find
anything anymore with these eyes.
Those were expensive reading glasses.
-I meant the juice glasses.
Yeah. juice glasses.
Our guests are getting thirsty
while that Hermanni just goes on and on.
There you are.
Thank you.
So it is.
So it is. Indeed.
That Hermanni just goes on and on.
Usually he reads
the newspaper all quiet -
but now we haven't gotten the newspaper.
because our mailbox has been stolen.
So it is.
What brought you boys...
Hermanni.
Stop jabbering. we have visitors.
What I was about to ask is.
what brought you boys here?
We are... looking for a friend.
Small-to-mid-sized one.
Yeah. We are really lonely boys.
Well that's a shame.
-A shame indeed.
But at least you have each other.
Yes. that is nice. but
we would like to play
hockey without skates with two goals.
We would need more players for that.
I played in Kiekkoreipas
when I was younger.
I could...
-Stop jabbering. we have visitors.
You have to continue further.
There are boys of your age
on this street.
What was the name of that Virtanen-boy?
Heimo.
-No.
Hemmo.
Hermanni.
-That is you.
Hemppa.
Now I got it. It was Hemppa.
Hemppa it was. Yes.
How's the juice?
Thank you. It was good.
Thank you.
We'll go and ask Hemppa to play.
Are you leaving already?
We have so few visitors.
I could have made lunch too.
-No thank you. Bye.
I could take a couple of sausages.
-Stop jabbering.
Or even one.
Look. Hemppa. Granny was telling
the truth. The mailbox has been stolen.
First of all. don't call me Hemppa.
And secondly. why would the granny
have lied about the stolen mailbox?
Look.
There is a mailbox missing here too.
-And there.
This means more work
for the Detective Agency.
How do we solve everything before
dinnertime? -We have to prioritize.
What's that?
-Put first things first.
Privysize all you want. as long as
I'm at the dinner table by five.
We are solving a murder.
and you're just thinking about food.
That again!
I'm gonna throw a rock at it.
Don't bother.
I wonder who is steering it?
Don't care.
It revealed us to Mrs. Luukka.
Or maybe it was trying to help us.
Maybe it was trying to warn us
about Mrs. Luukka.
Don't be afraid.
Wow! This thing is amazing!
Ouch!
-Darn it.
You threw it straight to my nutters.
No... Darn it.
I was trying...
-Don't. This will pass soon.
Okay...
Which house will we privysize next?
One meat mug please.
With all the condiments?
-Go ahead.
Okay.
Our investigations took us
to house number 11 next.
Hi. Wonderful. that you could come.
I thought you would be a bit older.
but it's great to have
younger folks too.
Come in fast. we're about to start.
Ok. nice to have new faces.
Come in. come in.
Ok. wonderful to have you here.
Spread out.
Now we are going to get exotic.
The topic of this lesson is...
Latin dances!
-Lambadaa. zumbadaa! Baila. baila!
Raimo already showed some of the moves
we are going to learn today.
Now relax your hips
and get your party vibes going!
Fajitas!
Sinikka. the player.
Yeah!
Remember the eyes.
Do you recognize these? Do you?
Looks like we have found dancing pants
without their owner on the floor.
They look fairly small.
Check. if you have your pants on.
-I have.
Does anyone recognize these?
The person inside of these
has been murdered.
Who will confess?
Have you found pantyhose somewhere?
We won't tell. We suspect.
What do you suspect?
-We won't tell.
Well. I'm not missing pantyhose.
Sinikka?
I'm not either.
And apparently neither is anyone else.
Do you know anyone. who would know
if the owner has been murdered.
Unfortunately
we can't help you with this.
Well ok. see you.
Who are you boys. anyway?
We're just Ef-pee-i-men.
Mambaaa!
Weird people.
It's getting close to dinner time.
Let's spread out so we make it in time.
Well?
-Nothing.
Pumpputie 44 left.
The one where that convicted
criminal lives? That... That...
Pet killer.
It's probably just a legend.
or a rumor.
We only believe in facts.
or certain things.
He might be really nice.
Don't go there.
It's open.
Henkka. Oh crud.
Okay. Fluffy.
We are almost ready for the party.
We get to eat.
Okay. time to eat.
Call the police.
-What?
He was the murderer.
-How so? We didn't see anything.
We need evidence.
We need to go there again.
I won't go there again.
What are you doing?
-Calling a colleague.
Don't call anywhere.
We can't prove anything.
Give me that.
-We can't jump to conclusions.
First you throw a rock at me. and now
you broke the screen of my phone!
What are you doing?
I was trying to hit that buzzer.
And I apologized.
No you didn't. I'm going now.
It's already past my dinnertime.
Go then. Have a cold meal.
-We have a microwave.
I'll solve this without you!
-Yeah right!
Yes. Yes. I'm sorry you were offended
but nothing really bad happened.
Boys want adventures. This only shows
they have initiative and courage.
Yes. Yes.
You should understand
that fantasy and reality
can get mixed up in a child's head.
Yes. I'm sorry.
So that I won't say anything
I will regret.
I will just wish you
have a lovely evening. Goodbye.
Henri Virtanen! What... Why...
And look how late it is.
Henkka. You know mom loves you.
And dad.
This simply cannot go on.
Neighbors are calling.
Why on earth have you vandalized
Mrs. Luukka's vegetable patch?
Mrs. Luukka is very angry.
-And dad.
You will go and apologize.
And get our shovel.
We were investigating...
-Stop it already!
I will not accept this. Go to you room
to investigate what you have done.
To your room! Right now!
I don't need anyone
I don't need someone
Who will always doubt
I will be okay
I will find my way
A murder has happened
It can be evidenced
So it can't be questioned
It is no illusion
I will be okay
Though the case is in disarray
Alone I will investigate
Alone I will solve
I don't need anyone
I will search through life
Mom forbids. Jiikoo gives up
I don't need them
I will comb the countryside
I won't accept less
I will solve this mess
It shouldn't be said
But I'm becoming so irritated
That I will say it
Look at that!
-Gosh darn it!
I will be okay
I will find my way
FOREST
NOW!!
Hi. Jiikoo. Don't hang up.
I think you were right about the drone.
It gave me a tip.
So?
I'm sorry I threw a rock at you
and was a bit of an a-hole.
You are my best friend. Sorry.
Kivimutka reporting for duty.
Good. Let's approach carefully.
Well? Aren't you coming?
Jiikoo. are you afraid?
Well... Yes.
Of the dark?
Yeah. -Well. now we know
what to write our papers on.
I got this.
Are you ok?
Yeah.
The light.
The missing mailboxes.
-Let's retreat.
What was that?
Search the area!
Turn it off!
Over there!
Run away!
Jiikoo?
Jiikoo. where are you?
Phew. There you are.
We found the stolen mailboxes.
Jiikoo. are you ok?
The snifflers.
Hey! Don't!
Pick him up.
What did you see?
-What does he have in his pocket?
Lousy phone. Old model.
Gimme that.
Any money?
No. but what are these?
Did you come to the woods
to smell some underwear?
I asked what are you doing here?
Leave Henkka alone!
Get off me. bloody brat!
Now you're really going to get it!
What's going on here?
Just playing around with our mates.
They are not our mates.
They took Henkka's phone.
So you're picking on
someone smaller than you.
Give the phone back. Right now.
Or else?
-Or Fluffy gets mad.
Did you hear that? Fluffy said...
Maniac!
-Total nutcase!
Are you ok?
-Yeah.
You're the boys who stopped by
to scream at my yard.
Yeah. Sorry.
It's ok. You should have come in.
I had just baked.
It's Fluffy's birthday today.
We were investigating a crime
and got scared.
You don't need to be afraid of Fluffy.
Oh. apologies. I'm Teuvo.
Henkka. He's Jiikoo.
-Hi.
Investigating a crime. you said?
Hopefully nothing bad has happened?
The owner of these pantyhose
has been murdered.
No. that can't be. Wait a minute.
I was walking Fluffy.
and someone was moving in
stuff to the house next door.
I think these pantyhose
were hanging from the car.
I think these might have
dropped from the car.
House next door? Pumpputie 427
-Yes.
We didn't go to that house. because
we thought no one was living there.
Thank you for your statement.
witness Teuvo. -You're welcome.
By the way. we solved one crime.
-The missing mailboxes!
Bye. Teuvo. And Fluffy.
-Bye-bye.
Let's go find some truffles.
Let's save the mailboxes.
Oh no.
We have to call grown ups!
-Emergency number!
Emergency response centre.
Hello?
Don't play with fire. kids.
You have exhibited extraordinary
resourcefulness and courage.
Therefore we present you
with these medals.
Thank you. It is clear. that we worked
to find the missing mailboxes.
But this says. it is for courage.
This does not belong to me.
but the true hero.
who put out the wildfire.
Kauko Mäyhkö!
The work of a detective is usually not
so glorious. but rather a tedious chore.
Collecting evidence and so on.
But now we're feeling kind of heroic.
The biggest reward for me and Kivimutka
are the satisfied customers.
And chocolate of course.
We got a couple of bars
from that couple.
Mrs. Luukka gave us a big slab
of chocolate and our shovel.
which we shared.
The chocolate. I mean.
Not the shovel. that was ours.
I have to admit that the liquor
chocolates the old couple gave
tasted terrible.
I heard Jiikoo's dog ate them
and got terrible diarrhea.
Jiikoo had to clean up the whole house.
I gave them to my dad.
but didn't have to clean up.
Pumpputie 42.
That is the murder weapon.
-Let's go and have a look.
The other one is Jiikoo.
They are ok. but kind of weird.
Are you ok. boys?
You shouldn't scream so long.
or you'll faint.
You are under arrest
for a serious crime. -What?
This is damning evidence.
And this is another one.
Where did you get these?
I think they dropped when we moved here.
-Dad!
How do you explain this bloody axe?
-Bloody?
Let's hear it.
Well. I guess I have to admit.
We moved to Pumpputie quite recently.
One night. quite late. I was bringing
some of our things here before the move.
I only noticed the next day
that stuff had dropped.
and found the axe on the road.
But I cleaned the paint from the tarmac.
Paint.
So I'm not under arrest?
-My apologies.
There was a misunderstanding.
Great that you cleaned up
after yourself.
so there are no consequences.
And we are sorry.
I was worried for a bit.
But you are quite nice boys.
Are you the penpals of Sisko-Kaarina?
Dad. come on.
What penpals?
-I mean those notes.
Dad. stop it.
I have a confession to make.
Oh it was you.
I meant to tell at school.
but it was so fun following you.
Without your help we would not
have found the missing mailboxes.
Oh. the mailbox.
What are you staring at?
Sorry. You fly that thing very well.
Thanks.
This is for you. Without you
we would not have solved this.
Cool medal.
Jiikoo. stop staring
and salute the air force chief
of the Southern Lahti FBI.
Welcome to the team. Well done.
I think this is yours.
Well I'll be... It is.
We accept chocolate as a reward
for returning the mailbox.
But no liquor chocolates.
Reward...
Well. I don't think we have
chocolate right at the moment -
but how about a tandem flight?
Paragliding is quite safe and fun.
Safe and fun.
I mean... Now that we have
new equipment for flying.
But ...
What?
I'm afraid of heights
And I'm afraid of water
I'm afraid
I will be alone
Without anyone
I'm afraid of these good folks
And their barbed talks
I'm afraid of dying
I'm afraid of living
I'm afraid of the darkness of the wood
Afraid I don't see good
I'm afraid of a dream
That is merely a gleam
We are all sometimes
afraid of something.
That is quite normal.
But remember. Henkka.
that fear is only in here.
And you have the power to overcome it.
Throw away your sad thoughts
Rip your fears to shreds
Hold your head up high
And sing this song of courage
Throw away your sad thoughts
Rip your fears to shreds
Hold your head up high
And sing this song of courage
Always
Hi. Kauko!
Throw away your sad thoughts
Rip your fears to shreds
Hold your head up high
And sing this song of courage
Always
That was so cool.
From up there you could see
the radio towers. the ski jumping hills.
the city hall. The whole city.
And I guess all of southern Finland.
The topic of this paper
was meant to be: "What do I fear?"
I feel it is wrong.
because fears are meant to be conquered.
I was afraid of heights.
but I conquered my fear.
Being afraid is normal.
but it can be overcome.
Remember that you are
the hero of your own life.
This paper is titled: "I am not afraid."
Throw away your sad thoughts
Rip your fears to shreds
Hold your head up high
And sing this song of courage
Always
Translation: Jani Kontra